
Abstract: 

       Smart farming has the potential to overcome the challenge of 2050 to feed 10 billion people.      
Both artificial intelligence (AI) and the internet of things (IoT) have become critical prerequisites to
smart farming due to their high interoperability, sensors, and cutting-edge technologies. Extending
the role of responsible leadership, this paper proposes an AI and IoT based smart farming system in
Bangladesh. With a comprehensive literature review, this paper counsels the need to go beyond the
simple application of traditional farming and irrigation practices and recommends implementing
smart farming enabling responsible leadership to uphold sustainable agriculture. It contributes to
the current literature of smart farming in several ways. First, this paper helps to understand the
prospect and challenges of both AI and IoT and the requirement of smart farming in a nonwestern
context. Second, it clarifies the interventions of responsible leadership into Bangladesh’s agriculture
sector and justifies the demand for sustainable smart farming. Third, this paper is a step forward
to explore future empirical studies for the effective and efficient use of AI and IoT to adopt smart
farming. Finally, this paper will help policymakers to take responsible initiatives to plan and apply
smart farming in1. 

Introduction:

        The 2050 goal of sustainable farming is to increase agricultural yield to meet the food
demand of 10 billion people and calls for smart farming [1]. The concept of smart farm￾ing refers to the 
application of cutting-edge technologies, including artificial intelligence
(AI), internet of things (IoT), and high-speed wireless network into farming practices to
maximize agricultural production and sustainability [2–4]. Following the trend and devel￾opment, 
traditional agriculture practices are converting into new wireless and innovative
technologies for both cultivation and supply chain management in Bangladesh. Moreover,
the concept of Agri-Food 4.0 has initiated a revolution in traditional farming by introducing
the fifth generation or 5G wireless communication technology to the field [4]. Agri-Food
4.0 refers to a comprehensive digitalized approach for higher productivity and practical
and efficient land management to achieve agricultural sustainability, quality of life for
farmers, and overall competitiveness of the sector [5].
On the other hand, the role of leadership has been identified as one of the significant
contributors to agricultural development across the world [6]. a developing economy like Bangladesh